# WorkoutLlama

## Inspiration
Getting started in the gym can be difficult for individuals who are unexperienced. Especially women as the sphere of fitness has a very outwardly masculine appearance. Workout Llama was created for the intention to support these people along their path to reaching their fitness goals.
## What it does
This website creates an account for the user and then stores their preferences and fitness goals in a database. Using these preferences, an algorithm filters through a dataset of different exercises to build the best workout routine for the given person given their constraints
## How we built it
The website is made out of a collection of HTML, CSS, and JavaScript files. The team also used the online webpage glitch.com to allow the team members to collaborate in real time and see their changes update onto a preview screen nearly instantaneously. We split the development into three major sections, one divided for each member of the team to take on. One of us worked primarily on front end development and the UX of the overall site. The two other members focused their efforts in developing the back end of the website, working with databases and sets that could store user preferences and then create an optimal workout schedule for their needs.
## Challenges we ran into
This was the first major website application any of the team members had created. While we were excited about the opportunity to learn new things, we also faced the reality that there would be a lot of difficulties in development for this reason. Because of that, a lot of the issues that presented themselves during the development process were troubleshooting syntax issues with the languages themselves, or some of the various applications that we were utilizing to get our website working.
## Accomplishments that we're proud of
Even with the challenges the team faced above, the team persevered through challenges together, ultimately creating something that we are very proud of. With no previous experience we collectively created something that no one of us had experience in doing less that 48 hours before. One of the things that we are most pleased about is the UI and UX of the finished application. The idea of Workout Llama was sprouted from the idea of making the initially overwhelming pursuit of personal fitness a little less intimidating to users by providing a useful guide to follow, so having our website with such a cheerful and welcoming atmosphere really feels like we accomplished the initial task we set out to do.
## What we learned
Like stated before, team members had only minor experience in creating a website before this project. But after this weekend, our team members feel both knowledgeable and comfortable with the process and possible features for next time we each work on something similar. 
## What's next for Workout Llama
The team has discussed the idea of creating a mobile application version of the site. This will both help expand its possible reach and impact, making the software that Workout Llama provides directly accessible from a phone. The team has also had ideas with further adding features to the site. Things like descriptions of each specific workout and a visual guide, a nutrition guide for helping reach a user’s goals, and more possibilities for creating a personalized workout schedule, with features to search and add specific workouts.
